so have you been on a cruise lately
cruise lines continue to transform their
ships making them more high-tech and
equip with the newest gadgets and
coolest gizmos but there is another
thing they keep doing and that's cutting
their ships in half now why on earth
would they do that well think about it
the biggest cruise ship in the world
Symphony of the Seas weighs more than 15
Brooklyn bridges
it's almost as long as the Empire State
Building is tall how about those four
crazy comparisons like many other modern
cruise ships Symphony of the Seas offers
his guests tons of entertainment from
playing glow-in-the-dark laser tag to
plunging from 10-story high water slides
strip malls concerts performances
climbing walls swimming pools countless
restaurants in short a cruise liner is
like a little city on the water which
makes me wonder what does it take to
build this monster of a ship and how
does such a massive hunk of metal stay
afloat well like planes trains and other
engineering feats a cruise liner is a
mega complicated construction it almost
resembles a giant floating to its walls
unlike in most buildings you see our
part of the ship structure all the
tiniest details have to be considered
for example the fact that cutting holes
in this huge tube can weaken the whole
thing obviously cruise ships are
constructed on land and then move to the
water but here's the surprising bit some
sections are built upside down
you see it's easier for workers to weld
plates of steel in a downward direction
rather than facing the Sun when all the
separated blocks are completed they get
flipped over and connected cabins and
other interior parts are built elsewhere
and then put inside the ship like
massive Legos cruise liners also have
tons of restrictions when it comes to
the materials used in their construction
for example you won't see any wooden
parts on a ship because this material
burns quickly and easily on
like metals and ceramics now it doesn't
mean designers don't try to make ships
as light as possible
remember the floating issue they put in
to use the most modern and durable
materials the higher up the ship the
lighter the materials must be to keep
the whole construction balanced and
prevent it from toppling over oh by the
way all the pools being at the top of
the ship not ideal so if the process of
creating a cruise ship is so complicated
then perhaps cutting the vessel in half
has something to do with this process
seems to be kind of drastic for a 50%
off cruise sail you think yeah not
really
the first idea that comes to mind when
you see sparks flying and workers making
cuts in a ship's hull the vessels come
to the end of its long fruitful life now
its parts will be taken apart and
recycled and of store it the theory
makes sense
but what's happening is completely the
opposite first a ship is cut in two and
the halves are pulled apart
now imagine unsnapping two LEGO pieces
and inserting one more block in between
that's exactly what's happening to a
vessel it's getting a new addition in
the middle the process I'm talking about
is called stretching just like with
limos and it serves several purposes for
one a new addition will make the vessel
larger more spacious and more luxurious
usually after the stretching a ship gets
new cabins and Suites and other modern
features such as new pools gyms and yoga
studios
it makes the ship's capacity bigger and
cruise prices higher a got to pay for
those new luxuries the stretching adds
about 20 more years to the ship's
already long life span if you want to
build a new cruise ship it'll take
almost a year adding a new card is way
faster several months and a modernized
ship is in service again while the ship
has its innards open its outdated
equipment can be replaced with a new one
that's more energy and fuel efficient it
means that not only better functioning
engines but also fewer repairs and less
maintenance and
best thing when a rejuvenated slicker
ship leaves the yard it doesn't even
have scars
that's how carefully its parts are
welded back together
stretching isn't the only way cruise
ships are removed nowadays they keep
getting cooler all thanks to modern
technologies if you've ever been on a
big liner sea cruise then you know how
difficult it can be to find your way
around a 15 deck schifflet sure on a
ship equipped with interactive maps you
indicate where you want to go and the
map shows the fastest way to get to this
place from your current location some
super advanced liners even have robots
that provide passengers with the
information they need and help those who
get lost on board a high-tech ship
there's no need to worry about losing
your wallet the wristband given to you
on the first day will serve as your
credit card what's even better as soon
as a staff member registers your
bracelet they'll immediately know your
name and first language it's bound to
take service to the next level and how
uncomfortable can it be to have your ID
card room key on you at all times like
when you're at the pool well on plenty
of modern cruises you don't have to
carry that thing around anymore
these days all you need is that
wristband this bracelet works with a
special app so you can order food and
drinks or unlock your cabin door as you
come close in total the thing has more
than 100 smart features lots of big
cruise lines have smartphone apps that
allow you to make dinner reservations
from wherever you are if you're a
passenger that is if using an app
doesn't seem exciting enough you may try
to figure out if your liner has a tablet
station if so you can use an interactive
screen for personal reservations some
high-tech cruises may have more than a
hundred such screens several clicks one
swipe of your wristband and you've
booked the table theater spa or some
other form of entertainment after that
it automatically appears on your agenda
and now are you ready to see what
cruises might look like in the nearest
future your cabins likely to have a bit
of outside appeal
inside its walls we'll be streaming
ocean views to check the weather you
won't have to go to the promenade your
cabin ceiling will show you what the
skies look like at this very moment your
cabin will also have a sunrise alarm and
you'll be able to choose the ones you're
liking from the time it should wake you
up to your favorite sky color your meals
also promised to be something else
special hi-tech headsets will turn a
good old dinner into an experience that
combines virtual and augmented reality
visually emerged in new exciting
surroundings you might find your food
more flavorful if not such a meal will
still stick in your mind new
technologies will allow you a sneak peek
at some off limit areas like the
captains quarters you'll be able to use
the same app for virtual shore
excursions cruise ships of the nearest
future won't have such a negative impact
on the environment
more and more cruise lines may start to
use air lubrication in other words ships
hulls will be covered with billions of
tiny air bubbles it will reduce drag
that's the force that slows a ship down
and water resistance thanks to this
innovation cruise ships will need less
fuel and less fuel means less pollution
cruise ships might become even bigger
than they are nowadays some of them may
even turn into floating cities with
parks and stadiums and who knows maybe
one day you'll see a ship with several
airplane runways now that would be weird
the new cruise ship shape may change as
well more of its hull is likely to go
underwater and huge panoramic windows
will let passengers admire the beauty of
the marine world lower decks might
feature special platforms for water
sports like water skiing or kayaking you
aren't likely to see human baristas on
future cruise ships they'll be
completely replaced by robots food is
also likely to be prepared by Robo chefs
all cruise ships will have not only
onboard drone airports but also drone
docks on passengers balconies bigger
drones will deliver supplies to the ship
and smaller ones will be used for
picking up and delivering laundry
bringing your online shopping orders and
delivering food and flowers plus you'll
be able to order a drone equipped with a
camera to capture your excursions or
other experiences hey I could just drone
on and on all cabins will be equipped
with sleep optimizers that will adjust
different features so you can have the
best sleep of your life this technology
will control oxygen and vibration levels
sound smells light and maintain a
comfortable temperature in your cabin
what will they come up with next well
whatever it is you'll probably see it
right here